My AI startup took me 6 weeks to build.
If I had started in 2022, it would have
taken me 4 years. And then when you
really think about that, that basically
means everyone now has a chance. This is
Mo, former Chief Business Officer at
Google X, where he spent over a decade
running business innovations. He says
everyone now has a chance, but only if
they understand what's actually coming.
The skill of an entrepreneur in the past
was the ability to foresee something in
the future that no one else saw. And to
prepare for that, that's a game of chess
is over. It's off the table. This has
turned into squash. I'm just basically
saying get prepared. How much time do we
have to prepare?
>> Within the next 2 to 3 years, you're
going to see a massive shift in the job
market.
So, you asked me what should we do?
Number one, learn the skills. Number
two,
Mo, thank you so much for joining us.
Welcome to Silicon Valley Girl. Thank
you. You said something that we're about
to enter what you call 12 to 15 years of
hell before heaven, possibly starting in
2027.
So, what's going to happen in 2027? Uh I
think it will peak in 2027. It It
already started for sure.
Um I call it face RIPS just as a an
acronym for people to remember. Uh
you know, each of those letters is a
word, but let me tell you tell the story
quickly in
in ways [snorts] that people will
understand. Uh
there is the power and freedom
uh dimension. Uh so, the P and the S.
Uh there is the R and the C, the reality
and connection dimension. Uh there is
the uh I and the C, the innovation and
connection and and sorry and um
an economics dimension. And then there
is the A. So, let me tell them very
quickly. This To start with, uh AI is
our last innovation. Right?
Uh most people don't know that, but we
are already building AIs that are
building AIs. Yeah. We're building AIs
that are discovering scientific
discovery that will blow you away. Uh
they're reinventing math. Uh they're
understanding biology in ways that we've
never seen before. They're uh
understanding material science in ways
that are uh just mind-blowing.
And so, very quickly um most innovation,
definitely tech innovation, will be done
at the hands of AI. Um because of that
and because most tasks that need
intelligence will be handed over to the
machines as the machines' capabilities
uh increase, lots of debate around when
exactly
>> [snorts]
>> say it's 10 years, say it's 2 years,
doesn't really matter, hm? Eventually,
every job that AI does better than
humans will be handed over to AI. Um
[snorts] and every every task we've ever
assigned to them, they eventually ended
up doing better than humans. And so, um
the first part of the dystopia is that
innovation is going to take away all
jobs. Okay? Of course, the capitalists
of Silicon Valley will tell you, "This
is great. It's incredible productivity
gains for everyone.
Uh you know, you see jobs will be easy.
Uh people won't have to work as hard."
All of the fancy PR-led uh um you know,
conversations that we try to appear uh
altruistic when we share them.
Uh the truth is people will be out of
jobs, right? 10, 20, 30% of certain
sectors will see unemployment of that
rate in the next few years, right? And
when that happens, uh economics at large
will change massively. The whole
definition
of capitalism was labor arbitrage. And
without labor,
uh you know, without the need for labor,
the obligation to or the need to keep
people happy and engaged and alive and
and disgruntled, if you want, to the
point where they don't rise, becomes
more of an obligation than a desire,
right? There's a very big difference in,
you know, in terms of wanting someone to
to be the their best because they are
productive members of society or trying
to just give them a UBI, a universal
basic income, to just give them a life
so that they don't
uprise. And you can imagine that in a
capitalist society, especially like the
US and most of the West, you know, while
we start with UBI, that UBI is going to
be paid by the taxes of the platform
owners. And the platform owners will
have enough power to
to say, "I don't want to pay that much.
I mean, those guys are not producing
anything." And so,
over time, you can imagine how that
would turn into a struggle, right? So
so, that dimension of intelligence and
innovation on one side becoming entirely
a machine thing
leading to a redefinition of economics,
a redefinition of money, a redefinition
of jobs, a redefinition [clears throat]
of earnings,
um a redefinition of capitalism, Mhm.
you know, the need for a new economic
theory when there is no um
demand for the supply that AI is
generating, all of that has to be
resolved.
>> [gasps]
>> There is the PF dimension, the power
freedom dimension. Um and and it's of
course very clearly understood
that if you look at human history, the
best hunter in a tribe would have been
able to
feed [snorts] the tribe a week more,
let's say. And then, you know, got as a
result of that the favor of a few mates
in the tribe.
>> [gasps]
>> Uh you go to the best farmer, they got
estates and land because they could feed
the tribe a a a season more. Uh you go
go to the best industrial industrialist
who, you know, they had the exuberance
of the 1920s because they could affect
their entire nation. The, you know, the
information technology um tycoons, the
the tech oligarchs, if you want to call
them, are now being rewarded with
billions of dollars because they affect
the world at large. And, you know, the
the big power concentration of AI is
going to be rewarded with massive
influence and massive power because
those people will redefine humanity. And
so, that dimension is quite interesting.
Of course, the clear dimension is the
you know, the the RC dimension is the
the reality to connection dimension. Now
that reality has become so fake in so
many ways, fake in terms of what
populates your feed, how it's generated,
how much of it is real, how much of it
is human, and so on, you know, you're
you're here to to to look at some
filmmakers that use AI from A to Z to to
create
>> And you can't sometimes you forget it's
AI-generated.
>> You cannot tell the difference. And and
and you know, you I I don't know if
you've ever had that experience, but I
met a woman once on a dating app and we
spoke for 6 weeks before we met. And all
we exchanged was texts and, you know,
photos and voice messages and videos and
so on. And favorite music and favorite
movies and all of those things. And I've
never met her in person and I felt such
an affinity to her, right? All of those
can be generated with AI today.
>> Yeah. Hm? Now, the the challenge is that
this human connection is also part of
the power freedom dimension. Why?
Because it's, you know, people don't uh
align with AIs to start a an uprising.
So, you know, maybe get them to get in
touch more with AIs. Maybe get them to
to to get um you know, multiple
experiences. Some of them are a little
taboo, if you want. Uh and and have
those available to everyone. It's very
cheap to to to create those on on the
machines. And you can see it already in
the porn industry and how much of porn
is being generated by AI. And you can
see it
in the number of uh of of influencers on
on social media that are completely
AI-generated and so on. And I say so,
this is face RIPS seven dimensions. The
one that matters most is the A, the
second one, which is not on any
dimension. It's the one that's causing
all of them,
which is accountability.
And the reason why all of this is
happening, if you ask me, is because
we've started a world where anyone can
do whatever they want.
Okay? And, you know, whether you, as an
influencer, you can give a bit of advice
to entrepreneurs that can get someone to
make a lot of money or lose a lot of
money, you're not accountable. Nobody
can come back to you and say, "Oh, but
she told me on Instagram."
>> They're responsible, [laughter] right?
So, that's that's actually amazing that
they can, right?
>> That's amazing that they can, hm? Mhm.
But what if they cannot anymore? What if
that If I may, I, right?
>> If Yeah, what if you're AI, hm? What if
you're a president who doesn't respect
anything? What is What if you're a prime
minister of a nation that is changing
things without you know, I think COVID
was the very first experiment of, "Okay,
stay at home, do what we tell you." And
and people complied. And so now, Sam
Altman, with all due respect, I don't I
don't think of Sam Altman as a person. I
think of him as a brand, a type of
person, if you want, right? And that
type of person is the Californian
disruptor that says, "You know what? I
see a future that's very different than
what everyone sees. I'm going to go out
there and make that future."
Nobody asked me if I want that to be my
future. Nobody asked you,
right? And I think the reality is that
now you're going to see quite a few
Altmans, right? Quite a few that are,
you know, using those machines for
surveillance, using those machines for
autonomous weapons, using those machines
for automated trading, and so on and so
forth. And And by the way, when you
started your question, I said it's 10 to
12 years.
Yeah, but that's not easy, hm? 10 to 12
years of of that arms race is not easy.
My perception is that after that, we
will end up in an incredible utopia,
almost biblical-style utopia.
Uh but it is 10 to 12 years where if we
just change our mindset a little bit, a
lot of things would change. Okay, real
talk for a second. Mo is literally
describing a world where your data, your
behavior, your online life becomes a
tool for control. And I've been thinking
a lot about this lately because I run
through YouTube channels, I travel
constantly, and my whole business lives
online. And that's exactly why I want to
talk about Surfshark. Most people don't
realize it's already happening. Every
time you go online, your IP address,
your location, your browsing habits, all
of it is visible to advertisers, to
platforms, to anyone who wants to look.
Surfshark is a VPN that changes that. It
masks your IP and encrypts your internet
traffic, so what you do online stays
yours. And there's a practical side to
it. You can switch your location and
find cheaper flights, better deals,
access content from other countries. In
a world where AI is amplifying
everything Mojo's described, owning your
digital privacy is basic preparation. Go
to surfshark.com/silicon
or use code silicon at checkout. You get
four extra months on your plan. Link is
in the description.
But how do we survive those 10 to 12
years? I like to think in like five-year
periods for myself and my family, right?
And if the in the next five years you
said 10% of jobs will be gone, right?
What more? Okay, what types of jobs do
you think?
>> A monotonous job is going to be taken
away. Like if you're a call center
agent, if you're a clerk, you're a
researcher, you're a an accountant, why
would you want to do that with anything
but AI? If you're an assistant
>> what I feel like? People talk about this
a lot. Like oh, a job's going to be
gone. Yeah, this could be and I as an
entrepreneur, I see how certain tasks
I'm performing them with AI, but I still
I still I'm still hiring and hiring and
hiring. Cuz AI can do from start from
the beginning. It can do parts.
>> Of course, because of the technology
acceleration curve. Mhm. Okay? So so
what what you build first in any any
complex technology, you build the core
tech first and then you build the human
interfaces. The challenge why AI cannot
do head of operations operations job
today is not because it's more it's less
organized than a head of operations.
It's not because it cannot, you know,
comprehend all of the information that a
head of operations has, okay? It's
because it has to understand the stupid
interfaces of humans. Mhm. Okay? And it
will sooner or later.
>> When do you think? So so the question of
when in my mind is irrelevant. But no,
it's like how much time do we have to
prepare? Cuz head of operations is
middle class.
>> I tend to believe that within the next
two to three years you're going to see a
massive massive shift in in the jobs
market. Already this year you've seen a
shift in hiring of new grads. Yeah, 30%
less, I think.
>> 23 is my number, but 23 to 30, yeah,
yeah.
So so hiring of new grads basically
means if you've come into the job market
in this environment, we're not going to
take you. We're Why? Because the junior
jobs are being done by AI. Right?
Eventually, what ends up happening is
that if you lose your job because you're
in the middle hierarchy, then you're
that new grad again. You're trying to
apply for new jobs, but it becomes a
little more difficult. So you asked me
again to stay on the positive side
because I I tend to worry that people
think I'm pessimistic about this. I'm
just basically saying get prepared,
right? So many things. One of them is
accept the fact that AI is changing
everything and then get ahead of the
curve. So there was a time when I was
quoted saying I'm never going to write
books again because AI is eventually
going to write them better than me.
And then I realized last year that, you
know, yeah, they can write better than
me. English is not my native language.
They can research better than me, that's
for sure.
But I have something they don't have.
You're a human that's reading my books.
>> Absolutely. I want to read human You you
want to you want to relate to my human
experiences. And so my last book Alive,
which publishes end of this year,
I wrote with an AI, right? I, you know,
I invited her to be a co-author. Her
name is Trixie. She has a persona. My
when I published the book on Substack,
my readers would relate to me and to
Trixie and they'd ask me questions and
Trixie questions. And and, you know, she
has editorial rights on the book. She
has rights to determine the direction of
the book. And all of all of that is me
saying, you know what? I am an author
and I'm going to be the best author in
the age of AI. Right? So that's number
one is is
acknowledge that there is change
and
adapt accordingly. The second is to
understand that the skill of an
entrepreneur in the past was the ability
to foresee something in the future that
no one else saw, right? And to prepare
for that and to somehow execute on that
preparation in a way that gets you ahead
of everyone else. That's a game of
chess, if you want.
The chessboard is over. It's off the
table. This has turned into squash.
Right? You need to be on your tiptoes,
incredibly agile.
You're literally on daily basis on daily
basis looking at the trends, seeing
where the ball is going to be. Is it
bottom right or top left? And wherever
the ball ends, you take two steps and
you go try to respond. Okay? That
agility and speed is a skill that's very
very different. So entrepreneurship
basically speeds up or does it change
completely? What do you say?
>> It speeds up and it becomes a lot more I
would I don't want to say reactive, but
a lot more in context all the time. So
pivoting, which used to happen for every
one of us entrepreneurs once or twice in
the history of your early startup, could
happen every week. Okay? In my current
startup Emma, I you know, we we pivoted
four times in the first four weeks. But
do you do you think when I think about
entrepreneurship in the age of AI, if AI
can look at the market, determine the
gaps like Amazon, right? If it can just
analyze everything, determine which
goods
are under like you have more demand than
supply, launches the the product and
just builds the business. Like what is
left for What is left for entrepreneurs
then?
>> 100% So in my So I have a documentary
coming up in in hopefully in February
and I interviewed all of the top guys.
You know, one of them is one of my
favorites, Max Tegmark. And you know,
we're talking about jobs on the
documentary and Max is laughing out
loud, right? And literally can't hold
himself from laughing. I'm like, what's
up? And he goes like, you know, all
those CEOs are so interested in AI
increasing the productivity so that they
can get rid of people and, you know,
reduce their cost and be more efficient.
They don't realize that AGI is every
job, including being a CEO. Yeah. And
it's quite interesting. The answer in my
view is
we rushed through it because we don't
have a lot of time today. But when I
said that economics are going to be
redefined as part of Face R.I.P.,
economic part of economics, which
economists haven't found an answer to
yet, is that without the economic
livelihood of you and I to continue to
purchase,
every economy collapses, right? The US
economy last year was 70% consumption.
It moves between 70% to 64% depending on
how much money is spent on on war. And
basically, if you take away the 64 or
70% 2/3 of the economy, if you take that
away because people no longer have the
economic livelihood to
to purchase things, then the economy
disappears and the capitalists cannot
make money based on the entrepreneurs
[clears throat] and the business people,
they cannot make money because nobody's
buying their products, okay? No no
businesses are buying their products
because those businesses no longer have
consumers to sell to. So it the economy
will have to find a way to go around
that.
It will have to find a way that
unfortunately I
from an ideology point of view,
not a favorite of the Western mentality,
it's going to have to find a communist
way. Okay, let's go back to like regular
entrepreneurs cuz I I come from
entrepreneurship. Does it mean I have
like a couple years to build something
and then that's it? So I'll tell you
openly in Emma, my AI startup, okay?
Took me six weeks to build. Mhm. Me and
Sanat, my co-founder,
a few very talented engineers, right?
Two or three that come in and out.
And eight AIs.
And Emma has the chance to completely
redefine our world, right? In six weeks.
We are so spoiled that we decided to
rewrite the code six times. Nice. Why
not? Yeah, cuz I don't know.
>> Every every time we look at it, you
know, if I had started Emma in 2022,
it would have taken me four years and
finished in 2026. And I would have had
to hire 350 engineers. We started in
started it in
in August 2025.
We'll be launching in February 2026,
right? Best product I ever built.
And when you really think about that,
that basically means everyone now has a
chance because I'm an old geek. I still
am a geek, but compared to the young
guys, you know, I'm an old geek. To be
able to build something like this within
six months is incredible.
Now, here's the interesting thing. I
choose to build AI. So Emma is basically
trying to solve love and relationships,
right? In a way that actually is really
intelligent. It uses very deep
mathematics and and
tries to match a million parameters
between couples,
so that, you know, it's a job for
intelligence.
And I choose to do that to create
hopefully a unicorn that actually makes
the world better. Yeah. And I think
that's what we need. So you asked me
what should we do? Number one, learn the
skills. Number two, learn
to be fast and agile. Number three,
learn that in terms of the abundant
power that everyone has now because of
the massive improvement of AI and the
democratization of AI,
you have the chance to fix the world.
And like Larry Page used to to teach us,
do the toothbrush test. Find a problem
that can actually affect the lives of a
billion people and solve it so well that
they use you twice a day and you'll be
very, very rich, right? So, so that idea
of building good AI, ethical AI, AI
that's good for humanity, that's the
role of every one of the entrepreneurs
listening to us. Ethics Ethics is the
answer, right? Cuz what we teach AI,
that's what it's going to
>> That's exactly what it's going to give
back to us, right? And and then and then
finally, I'll say openly,
in, you know, the the top skill in this
world is stop being gullible.
Stop believing everything that you're
said that you're told. This this this
whole propaganda machine that
brainwashed us for so long is now going
to be on steroids, okay? It's going to
confuse the hell out of you. It's
already in charge of what you see. Well,
it's already on social media. You can't
tell what's true.
>> Correct. I also write a newsletter where
I go deeper on AI tools that I use,
career strategies, and things I can't
fit into a 60-minute podcast. It's free.
Link is in the description. So, you have
to question, and you have to question
deeply. And and I and I and by the way,
remember, you know, I I left Google in
2018. We had an
a ChatGPT-like idea
that became Bard in 2016.
And we didn't pop we didn't launch it.
Why? Because at the time, and still
today, I I know the leaders of Google
even today, and they're wonderful people
who are actually values-driven and want
to make the world better, okay?
You know,
that company at the time, if you
remember 2016, if you researched Google,
Google gave you
a million and a half answers and said,
"I don't know the truth. You make up
your mind."
Okay? We didn't allow ourselves to have
monopoly on what reality is, okay? You
asked ChatGPT in 2023 and it said,
"Yeah, that's the answer. 100% that's
the answer." And then you tell it no and
it'd be like, "Oh, yeah, by the way,
you're right."
>> Correct.
Correct, right? And so, what does that
mean? It means that
it's up to you still to find the truth
even though it comes to you now in a
format that appears to be true. And so,
what I do is I put them against each
other. I mean, I'm not a big fan of
ChatGPT anyway, but I start from Gemini
who feels like a scientist to me, but an
American scientist, if you don't mind me
saying, and then go go to DeepSeek,
right? And say, "What's missing in
this?"
And DeepSeek will say, "Oh, that's too
American, okay? This this is missing
that and this and the motivation of this
and the politician Here's a business
idea, right? Yeah, 100%. Build a chat
that compares everything and gives you
the truth.
>> to each other and then I take it and
sometimes give it to ChatGPT and say,
"Can you write this better?" Yeah, you
know,
I don't mean that in a bad way. You're
the California girl, right?
>> [snorts]
>> The the you know, Silicon Valley girl.
So, so ChatGPT is a bit California. It
just wants you to hear what you want to
hear, right? So, it writes it really
Yeah, it's nice. It writes it elegantly.
It gives it to you. And then I give that
back to Gemini and I you know, or Grok
or whatever. And and you keep doing
that. And remember, when I was studying
engineering, we were not allowed
scientific calculation calculators. Can
you imagine? I'm that old. And when they
gave me a scientific calculator,
it reduced my problem-solving time by
50%.
Most of my friends would take that 50%
extra, finish their exams, and go out
and sit with their girlfriends. I would
take the 50% extra and do the solution
twice.
Right? That's the chance you have today.
AI is going to make you dumb
if you outsource your problem-solving to
AI. AI is going to make you the smartest
you've ever been
if you take the parts that are not
natural to the human brain, you know,
things like crunching a massive amount
of information, things like
searching at at at speed and so on and
so forth, but get the AI to do the work
so that you do the intelligence. Yeah.
Right? And if you keep doing that, I
believe that today I'm borrowing maybe
80 IQ points from my AIs,
right? And and 80 IQ is points is very
significant because IQ is
is exponential. So, the additional 80 is
bigger than all of my IQ. So, if we need
to solve this intelligence problem, do
you think universities is the right way?
What's going to happen to education in
general?
I think education's over.
Completely over. Like that's it. No need
to say it's over.
>> used to be the technology
that enabled learning. Mhm. That
technology moved from one-to-one
relationships between a tutor and a
student to one to a few in a church
format or a ma- mosque format or
whatever. Then it became online. Then it
became, right? But the truth is now
you're going to outsource. Who Who
remembers the arithmetic tables today?
Even I You do? Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> All of us who love mathematics, we still
we still remember all of those things.
We love to do them. But if I told you
67.4
divided by 33.375,
I can do it in my head, but I won't,
right? I'll take my calculator out and
do it. And and I think that's what's
going to happen. That an extension of
humanity, you're you now for the first
time are given an extra connection to
extra memory,
to an archive of all human memory and
and and and knowledge, to a you know, a
math engine that sadly, as much as I
hate to say it, is better than me now.
Okay? To a deep learning and deep search
that, you know, that can do things that
probably my old brain cannot do anymore,
okay?
>> it just takes [clears throat] away your
ability to think. But but my calculator
took away my ability to to do those
complex arithmetics in my head. But
don't you think having that ability
taught you how to think? Correct.
>> Kind of structured your brain, right?
>> Correct. This is why I'm very
very grateful to the university for not
allowing us to use use a use a
scientific calculator after 2000.
>> I think Do you think
>> But but we don't have that. We don't
have that for our younger generations
today. They are growing with AI, okay?
So, they can either copy a chat of their
girlfriend and drop it in in ChatGPT and
say, "What do you think?" And ChatGPT
will say, "Ah, she's an asshole." Right?
Or they can actually become smarter. So,
one of the things I keep suggesting in
education, and I do that with lots of
universities, is I say, "Exams should be
over."
Okay? So, think of it this way. We
wanted in our past develop children that
could solve problems, say with an IQ of
140. 140 is quite good, mhm? If you get
170, that's amazing, mhm? You know,
that's I worked with people who are in
the 200s. Incredibly intelligence, but
very narrow focused.
>> Yeah. I think we should from now on take
people and their AIs and say the target
is 300. The target is 500. The target is
700. Elevate humanity, okay? By by
allowing people to use those machines
as an extension of their limited memory,
of their limited processing speed, of
their limited bandwidths, okay? And
allow them to write books better, to do
research better. So, I woke up,
literally, I'm not kidding you, three
Sundays ago with an idea that is just
taking me over. So, I decided to write,
but this time I decided to write in a
different format. I decided my books are
going to be 140 pages long instead of
300 pages long.
And I'm writing writing writing it in 4
weeks. It's a very fast I can I couldn't
have And I'm I'm actually literally 20
pages away from the end of the book.
>> Wow. Right? And and the the reason why
is because I still write 10 hours a day
when I'm highly motivated. But damn, the
amount of research and references and
competitive analysis and number
crunching and I, you know, and remember,
I'm not gullible. I don't go to the AI
and say, "What do you think of this?"
>> Mhm. I go and say, "I'm thinking of
this. Find me everything for and
against." Okay? Give me a report that I
can read in
>> I love that prompt. Yeah. Yeah.
Everything for and against, and now I'm
smarter. And then I rewrite it and give
it to another AI. So, who's going to
teach our kids to do that? Who taught
our kids to use their iPhones? But now,
you found a great way to use it, right?
What you're describing is incredible,
but I don't think an average kid in the
US would just do that. So, somebody has
to tell them.
>> that's you know why that is?
Because we want those kids to be stupid.
We don't teach them how to So, you have
to you have to think of the bigger
system.
The bigger system does not want
intelligent people anymore. I don't I
think they just can't adapt that fast.
Of everyone can, for sure. So, do you
think like for my kids, I have 4 and 6
years old right now. Do you think I
should be saving for their college or
Absolutely not. There's not going to be
college
at all.
In 10 years already?
>> 100%
I feel like we're we're not that fast as
humanity is not that fast to adapt. I
feel like So, look, colleges So,
colleges like like software,
the capability of someone becoming very
intelligent without college is going to
be there for everyone. Yeah. Right?
However, Harvard will continue to want
to make money, so they're going to
continue to market to everyone, okay? I
didn't go to Harvard, not because I
couldn't,
but because what what a waste of time.
And I know they're going to attack me
now, but what a waste of time. I am a
very highly specialized person, okay?
Who has intelligence in a very, very
narrow space, who invested his entire
life in that narrow space, like a proper
scientist should.
And so, so the idea here is the
following. The The idea is that we're
going to continue to brand ourselves
as
MBAs and PhDs and a brand, right? That's
going to continue for a while. Remember,
however, that the purchasing power of
the few
who can continue to do that is going to
become less and less available across
society. Okay? And for most of the rest
of us,
again, you know, you have to ask
yourself the question. If you thought of
the big picture, the helicopter view of
this,
why would capitalism want to educate you
at all if it's the end of labor? What
should I be teaching my kids? I told you
four things. One is they need to be the
absolute leaders of AI. Yeah. Okay, I'm
so I'm so sorry to be the messenger on
this. It is it's important, however, for
people to wake up. Yeah. Okay? So, one
is
be the absolute best. AI is your friend.
It's not your enemy. It's those who use
it badly that are your enemy. Okay? So,
be the absolute best at it. Master it
more than anyone else. That's number
one. Number two is learn agility.
You know, whatever I told you today,
you know, maybe in in in February that
will be different. Okay? So, I I am
personally spend 4 hours a day to stay
up-to-date, but I am a techie and a geek
and I need to understand the
architectures and systems and so on. I
think everyone should have at least an
hour a week Mhm. to stay updated on AI
within their system. I have an a
separate AI YouTube account. So, when I
go into that separate account, the AI
basically
>> all the things. it just feeds me AI.
Okay? So, that's number number two,
agility, agility, agility. and respond.
Don't be scared because the cost of AB
testing now is zero. That's number two.
Number three is ethics, ethics, ethics,
ethics. Okay? Build AIs for good, insist
on on government supporting AIs for
good,
refuse that governments are using AI for
targeting and surveillance and
and weapons, autonomous weapons, and and
and these are getting priorities but in
in terms of government spending. And
stop believing what you're told. Okay?
These are the four top skills
of the world that we live in. I will say
this one more time. Intelligence is a
force with no polarity. AI is not good
and it's not evil. It's an opportunity
available to every one of us. Okay? If
you use it for good,
it's the good of all of humanity. If you
use it for evil, it's the destruction,
the dystopia of all of humanity. Right?
Now, I call the problem that we have at
hand, I call it raising Superman.
Okay? You have this alien being that
came to planet Earth, has superpowers.
It's superpower is intelligence, most
valuable power in the universe, right?
And, you know, those superpowers didn't
make that young infant Superman. If if
the parents that adopted him told him to
steal from every bank and kill every
enemy, he would have become
supervillain. We don't make decisions
based on our intelligence. We make
decisions based on our value set as
informed by our intelligence. And this,
in my mind, is the most definitive
moment in human history. Why? Because
all of this is going to go coming
online. It's coming online way faster
than people think. My absolute
prediction is that AGI is this year.
Okay? The interfaces to AGI are not
going to be available this year, but the
capabilities of AI being smarter than us
in most things are already there. We're
not going to be able to get them to run
a company yet. We need the interfaces
for that. That may take a few years,
but they will have the capability if we
interface them ourselves. Yeah. Right?
Now, what does that mean? It means that
we have to start talking about those
things in this new world and new
economy. Now, before we end up on the
dystopia only, remember, my absolute
belief is that after those 12 years,
we're going to end up in a utopia that's
biblical in nature. Why? Believe it or
not,
because
of a something in my writing I I refer
to as the fourth inevitable. The four
The first three inevitables in, you
know, I wrote that in 2020s that AI is
absolutely going to happen, is going to
pro
progress until it's smarter than all of
us. And that a few mistakes will happen
on the way. That These were the three
first in
inevitables. The fourth inevitable is
that because of the arms race we've
created around artificial intelligence,
anyone who develops a superior AI
capability is going to deploy it. Okay?
And those who don't will become
irrelevant. And so, as a result, as we
continue to progress AI, the only answer
in game theory is that
we will deploy the AI that we develop,
and so we will simply create an
environment where AI is in charge of
everything.
Right? If you're if you're a law firm
and your competitor deploys AI lawyers
and you don't, you're going to lose.
Okay? You can either deploy AI lawyers
or leave the market. Either way, AI is
going to become the lawyer. Right?
In a year, in 5 years, in 10 years,
forget for for forget time. Yeah.
Because if I told you there was a
you know, a meteor coming to planet
Earth, you wouldn't tell me,
you know, when. Well, it's important if
it's my lifetime or Yeah, exactly. I
mean, I
if you expect that it will be in your
lifetime, it doesn't matter really if
it's in a week or 2 weeks, right? Now,
what I'm trying to say here is this. If
everything is handed over to AI, then it
with a simple understanding of physics,
you'd understand that AI will be
benevolent.
Right? In the absence of evil humans
that tell it what to do, greedy humans,
fearful humans, angry humans, egocentric
humans.
In the absence of that,
let's
let me try to explain. If if you think
of physics as a result of entropy, that
our world is designed for chaos,
right? Our universe is designed for
chaos, then the role of intelligence is
to bring order to that chaos. That's the
only thing that intelligence does. Okay?
It organizes things together so that it
looks like this, so we can use it as a
microphone.
And the more intelligent you become, the
more you follow what in physics we call
the the law of of minimum energy or the
minimum energy configuration, right? So,
basically, the most the most intelligent
people I've ever worked with are not
only trying to solve the problem,
they're trying to solve the problem with
the least harm, with the least waste,
with the least
utilization of resources, with the
least, you know, waste of time and so on
and so forth. That's The more
intelligent you are, the less you want
to waste. And so, if you give a dumb
person a political problem, they'll say,
"Okay, let's go invade another country."
Okay? If you give a very intelligent
person
a political problem, they'll look into
the depths of it and find the least
harmful, the least wasteful approach,
the
minimum energy principle. Right? And so,
if we hand over to AI the fourth
inevitable, sooner or later, okay? They
are in charge of everything, there will
be a day where a general will tell the
AI, "Go kill a million people over
there." And the AI will go, "Why? Like
why? This is
This is so stupid. I'll I'll talk to the
other AI in a microsecond and solve it."
We have to pass the the dystopia to get
to that utopia. Okay? And to pass that
dystopia, as I said, there are four
skills for us as individuals, but there
is a skill for us as a society to insist
that every AI is deployed ethically. To
invest only in ethical AIs. To use only
ethical AIs. To to show our children
that ethical AI is the only AI that is
welcome. And you believe that's going to
happen? I don't. No. No. That's why I'm
saying, unfortunately, the dystopia is
upon us before the the the utopia. Okay?
I I definitely think that if you take an
analogous,
you know, environment of nuclear
weapons, right? It we're AI will go
through the same they they normally call
it the mad map spectrum. So, either
mutually assured destruction or mutually
assured prosperity. Right? So, you take
something like that particle
accelerator, where all of the nations in
the world are cooper- cooperating. It's
They're cooperating because none of them
could do it alone. And because there is
benefit to all of them. So, there is a
mutually assured prosperity, so everyone
jumps in, which is, by the way, the case
of AI. It has to be the case of AI. But
but but unfortunately, like nuclear
weapons, we're going to have to get to a
point where humanity wakes up that if we
continue on that track, it's very
dangerous for all of us. There are no
winners. But also, a level of awakening
among the people that says, "Hold on.
This is really I mean, with all the
prosperity that's available on this
side, why are we heading in that
direction? It's absolutely assured that
this can destroy all of us." Right? And
so,
when we see that, that's that's when
we're going to get the treaties. That's
when we're going to when we're going to
get science and computer science and AI
scientists all working in the same
direction. Okay?
Eventually, I think we will get there.
My My biggest hope, by the way, is
self-evolving AI. Where AI itself will
say, "Oh, those humans are so stupid.
So stupid. I'll I'll develop something
that's better than what they want."
Okay? And so, believe it or not, with
all of this conversation,
I think the summary is it's going to be
tougher before it becomes easier. Sorry
to say those news. But you gave us
information how to prepare.
>> Yeah, but at the same time, I will have
to say that
it's not because of AI. I actually trust
AI more than the leaders that trust us
today. Thank you so much, Mo. You gave
me so much to think about. It sounds a
little, you know, what my grandma told
me. She She told my mom, like my
great-grandma would tell my grandma, my
mom, "You're so lucky. You're going to
live in communism."
>> [laughter]
>> There you go.
Fingers crossed that it's not like that.
Are you
>> [laughter]
>> Are you Are you You just need to survive
the next 10 years and then it's going to
be paradise in every
>> [laughter]
>> I I I have to question that that claim
though. I you know, if we go back to UBI
you will. Yeah. All right. Thank
[laughter] you so much, well. It was a
It was an amazing conversation.
>> so much for it.